Don’t leave routes hanging (#121)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2021/2021-03-22-be-specific-when-defining-routes.md

---
title: "Be specific when defining your routes"
description: "Reduce accidental paths and be intentional"
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: "2021/be-specific-when-defining-your-routes"
  alt: "Purple-lit urban road junction"
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/_QoAuZGAoPY"
  credit: "Denys Nevozhai"
---

> Many controllers don't need the full set of restful routes. We often have a resource that can only be created and deleted or where there's only a show action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many controllers don't need the full set of restful routes to be generated. We often have resources in our codebase that can only be created or deleted, or where there's only a show action.
```

Reviewer: My suggestion isn't quite there yet. But you're essentially trying to say "if we only need for it to be created or deleted, why also have all the other routes", right?

## Instead of ...

> ...generating all the routes.

Reviewer: * :

### `config/routes.rb`

```ruby
resources :dogs do
  resources :meals
end
```

## Use...

> ...only the routes you're actually going to use

Reviewer: * :

### `config/routes.rb`

```ruby
resources :dogs, only: %w[create edit index new show update] do
  resources :meals, only: %w[create index]
end
```

## Why?

> There's no value to maintaining, generating and loading routes that do not link to actions in your controllers. In fact it'll allow errors to creep into your code and unexpected behaviour to live on in your application.

Reviewer: Oxford comma, pleaseeee... :P

Reviewer: *It may allow errors.. ?

> If a user can't `destroy` a `Thing` in a `ThingsController, don't give them a route to try and do so.

Reviewer: Need a closing backtick for `ThingsController`.
